SCRIPTURE FIDELITY QUEUE — 192 distinct misquotations, 203 occurrences
Generated 2026-08-04 (S198 pre-session pass)

Every entry is a passage inside quotation marks whose wording is not what the
readers NIV says. Work smallest-distance first: those are unambiguous.
For larger ones decide deliberately — restore the NIV, mark the omission with an
ellipsis, or move the paraphrase OUT of quotation marks and into your own prose.

  A. one word                 45
  B. two or three words       52
  C. short rewrite            45
  D. compression or truncation50

========================================================================


### A. ONE WORD
========================================================================

Revelation 17:8   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "The beast, which you saw, once was, now is not, and yet will come up out of the Abyss and go to its destruction. The inhabitants of the earth whose names have not been written in the book of life from the creation of the world will be astonished..."
   NIV : "The beast, which you saw, once was, now is not, and yet will come up out of the Abyss and go to its destruction. The inhabitants of the earth whose names have not been written in the book of life from the creation of the world will be astonished when they see the beast, because it once was, now is not, and yet will come."
   FILES: devotional-your-name-in-the-book.html

Galatians 1:15-16   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "But when God, who set me apart from my mother's womb and called me by his grace, was pleased to reveal his Son in me so that I might preach him among the Gentiles..."
   NIV : "But when God, who set me apart from my mother's womb and called me by his grace, was pleased to reveal his Son in me so that I might preach him among the Gentiles, my immediate response was not to consult any human being."
   FILES: secular-genetics-sovereignty.html

2 Peter 2:1   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "...just as there will be false teachers among you. They will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the sovereign Lord who bought them — bringing swift destruction on themselves."
   NIV : "But there were also false prophets among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you. They will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the sovereign Lord who bought them—bringing swift destruction on themselves."
   FILES: apologetic-the-once-for-all-ephapax.html

2 Timothy 1:12   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "...because I know whom I have believed, and am convinced that he is able to guard what I have entrusted to him until that day"
   NIV : "That is why I am suffering as I am. Yet this is no cause for shame, because I know whom I have believed, and am convinced that he is able to guard what I have entrusted to him until that day."
   FILES: apologetic-i-know-whom-i-have-believed.html

1 Peter 1:5   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "...who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time."
   NIV : "who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time."
   FILES: apologetic-kept-by-the-power-of-god.html

Philippians 1:29   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "For it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him..."
   NIV : "For it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him,"
   FILES: resistance-redefining-grace.html

Romans 9:23   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "...to make the riches of his glory known to the objects of his mercy, whom he prepared in advance for glory."
   NIV : "What if he did this to make the riches of his glory known to the objects of his mercy, whom he prepared in advance for glory"
   FILES: broken-mirror-vessels-for-mercy.html

2 Timothy 2:25   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "...in the hope that God will grant them repentance leading them to a knowledge of the truth."
   NIV : "Opponents must be gently instructed, in the hope that God will grant them repentance leading them to a knowledge of the truth,"
   FILES: scripture-tsunami-faith-as-gift.html

Ephesians 2:1-2   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you used to live…"
   NIV : "As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world and of the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient."
   FILES: question-dead-man-visual.html

Ephesians 1:4   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "He chose us in him before the creation of the world..."
   NIV : "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight."
   FILES: psychology-backfire-effect.html

Ephesians 2:1   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins..."
   NIV : "As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins,"
   FILES: the-fork.html

Hebrews 12:2   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "...fixing our eyes on Jesus, the pioneer and perfecter of faith."
   NIV : "fixing our eyes on Jesus, the pioneer and perfecter of faith. For the joy set before him he endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God."
   FILES: scripture-tsunami-faith-as-gift.html

Revelation 13:8   (1 page, distance 0, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "...the Lamb who was slain from the creation of the world ."
   NIV : "All inhabitants of the earth will worship the beast—all whose names have not been written in the Lamb's book of life, the Lamb who was slain from the creation of the world."
   FILES: scripture-tsunami-faith-as-gift.html

John 12:32   (7 pages, distance 1)
   PAGE: "I will draw all people to myself"
   NIV : "And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself."
   FILES: devotional-the-kindest-shock.html, psychology-system-justification.html, question-1peter1.html, question-cannot.html, question-godwants.html, question-sovereignty-logic.html, word-study-every-all.html

1 Corinthians 15:22   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "In Adam all die; in Christ all will be made alive."
   NIV : "For as in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive."
   FILES: systematic-federal-headship.html

2 Corinthians 4:4   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "The god of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers, so they cannot see the light."
   NIV : "The god of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers, so that they cannot see the light of the gospel that displays the glory of Christ, who is the image of God."
   FILES: story-the-person-who-chose-god.html

Acts 10:12   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "all kinds of animals"
   NIV : "It contained all kinds of four-footed animals, as well as reptiles and birds."
   FILES: demolition-1tim2-4.html

Acts 17:30   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "God commands ALL people everywhere to repent."
   NIV : "In the past God overlooked such ignorance, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent."
   FILES: demolition-acts17-30.html

Ephesians 2:1   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "dead in [their] transgressions and sins"
   NIV : "As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins,"
   FILES: question-am-i-chosen.html

Exodus 9:16   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "I raised you up,"
   NIV : "But I have raised you up for this very purpose, that I might show you my power and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth."
   FILES: romans-9-deep-dive.html

John 1:13   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "not of natural descent, nor of human decision or a husband's will, but [of] God"
   NIV : "children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision or a husband's will, but born of God."
   FILES: compare-monergism-synergism.html

John 8:32   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "And you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free."
   NIV : ""Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.""
   FILES: freedom.html

Romans 5:18   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "justification for all people"
   NIV : "Consequently, just as one trespass resulted in condemnation for all people, so also one righteous act resulted in justification and life for all people."
   FILES: word-study-every-all.html

Romans 8:28-29   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "For we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose. For those God foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters."
   NIV : "And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who[a] have been called according to his purpose. For those God foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters."
   FILES: broken-mirror-not-self-made.html

Romans 8:29-30   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "Those he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters. And those he predestined, he also called; those he called, he also justified; those he justified, he also glorified"
   NIV : "For those God foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters. And those he predestined, he also called; those he called, he also justified; those he justified, he also glorified."
   FILES: devotional-chosen-before-you-were-broken.html

Romans 8:30-31   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "And those he justified, he also glorified. What, then, shall we say in response to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?"
   NIV : "And those he predestined, he also called; those he called, he also justified; those he justified, he also glorified. What, then, shall we say in response to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us?"
   FILES: question-goldchain.html

Romans 9:16   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "It does not depend on human desire or effort, but on God's mercy"
   NIV : "It does not, therefore, depend on human desire or effort, but on God's mercy."
   FILES: compare-calvinism-arminianism.html

Romans 9:18   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "He has mercy on whom he wants to have mercy, and he hardens whom he wants to harden"
   NIV : "Therefore God has mercy on whom he wants to have mercy, and he hardens whom he wants to harden."
   FILES: apologetic-priest-shoulders.html

Romans 9:22-23   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "What if God, although choosing to show his wrath and make his power known, bore with great patience the objects of his wrath—prepared for destruction? What if he did this to make the riches of his glory known on the objects of his mercy, whom he prepared in advance for glory?"
   NIV : "What if God, although choosing to show his wrath and make his power known, bore with great patience the objects of his wrath—prepared for destruction? What if he did this to make the riches of his glory known to the objects of his mercy, whom he prepared in advance for glory—"
   FILES: objection-god-could-save-all.html

Matthew 18:12   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "Does he not leave the ninety-nine on the hills and go to look for the one that wandered off?"
   NIV : ""What do you think? If a man owns a hundred sheep, and one of them wanders away, will he not leave the ninety-nine on the hills and go to look for the one that wandered off?""
   FILES: devotional-the-shepherd-came-looking.html

Ephesians 1:4   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "chosen in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless"
   NIV : "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight."
   FILES: apologetic-gave-himself-for-the-bride.html

Amos 3:2   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "You only have I known of all the families of the earth"
   NIV : "You only have I chosen of all the families of the earth; therefore I will punish you for all your sins."
   FILES: question-chosen.html

1 Peter 1:20   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "He was chosen (foreknown) before the creation of the world."
   NIV : "He was chosen before the creation of the world, but was revealed in these last times for your sake."
   FILES: argument-arminianism-secretly-assumes-calvinism.html

Ephesians 2:9   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "is not by works, so that no one can boast."
   NIV : "not by works, so that no one can boast."
   FILES: fork-in-the-road.html

Romans 9:11   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "so that God's purpose in election might stand"
   NIV : "Yet, before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad—in order that God's purpose in election might stand:"
   FILES: systematic-theology-proper.html

Ephesians 1:4   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "chosen before the creation of the world"
   NIV : "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight."
   FILES: systematic-trinity.html

Ephesians 1:6   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "for the praise of his glorious grace"
   NIV : "to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the One he loves."
   FILES: objection-why-not-save-everyone.html

Acts 13:22   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "a man after God's own heart"
   NIV : "After removing Saul, he made David their king. God testified concerning him: ‘I have found David son of Jesse, a man after my own heart; he will do everything I want him to do.’"
   FILES: ot-david.html

John 1:3   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "through whom all things were made"
   NIV : ""Through him all things were made; without him nothing was made that has been made.""
   FILES: reformed-apologetics-transcendental.html

John 13:18   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "I know whom I have chosen"
   NIV : "I am not referring to all of you; I know those I have chosen. But this is to fulfill this passage of Scripture: 'He who shared my bread has turned against me.'"
   FILES: question-perseverance.html

Romans 10:3   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "Seeking to establish their own."
   NIV : "Since they did not know the righteousness of God and sought to establish their own, they did not submit to God’s righteousness."
   FILES: psychology-system-justification.html

2 Corinthians 5:14   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "Christ died for all"
   NIV : "For Christ's love compels us, because we are convinced that one died for all, and therefore all died."
   FILES: demolition-hebrews2-9.html

James 2:6   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "drag you into court."
   NIV : "But you have dishonored the poor. Is it not the rich who are exploiting you? Are they not the ones who are dragging you into court?"
   FILES: apologetic-no-one-can-come-unless.html

John 8:36   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "you will feel free."
   NIV : "So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed."
   FILES: secular-ai-determinism.html

Romans 1:21   (1 page, distance 1)
   PAGE: "foolish hearts are darkened"
   NIV : "For although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him, but their thinking became futile and their foolish hearts were darkened."
   FILES: secular-psychology-bondage-of-will.html


### B. TWO OR THREE WORDS
========================================================================

Acts 4:27-28   (2 pages, distance 2)
   PAGE: "to do what your power and will had decided beforehand should happen"
   NIV : "Indeed Herod and Pontius Pilate met together with the Gentiles and the people of Israel in this city to conspire against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed. They did what your power and will had decided beforehand should happen."
   FILES: ot-joseph.html, systematic-divine-decrees.html

1 Peter 1:5   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "the coming of the salvation ready to be revealed in the last time."
   NIV : "who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time."
   FILES: demolition-1peter1-5.html

Acts 2:23   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "handed over by God's deliberate plan and foreknowledge"
   NIV : "This man was handed over to you by God's deliberate plan and foreknowledge; and you, with the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross."
   FILES: question-godwants.html

Acts 8:30-31   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "How can I, unless someone explains it to me?"
   NIV : "Then Philip ran up to the chariot and heard the man reading Isaiah the prophet. "Do you understand what you are reading?" Philip asked. "How can I," he said, "unless someone explains it to me?" So he invited Philip to come up and sit with him."
   FILES: question-isaiah53.html

Ephesians 1:4   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "in him to be holy and blameless in his sight"
   NIV : "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight."
   FILES: canons-of-dort-plain-english.html

Ephesians 1:4   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "He chose us before the creation of the world"
   NIV : "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight."
   FILES: objection-evangelism-pointless.html

Ezekiel 37:12   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "I will open your graves and bring you up from them."
   NIV : "Therefore prophesy and say to them: 'This is what the Sovereign Lord says: My people, I am going to open your graves and bring you up from them; I will bring you back to the land of Israel.'"
   FILES: story-the-person-who-chose-god.html

John 6:44   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "No one CAN come to me unless the Father draws them"
   NIV : "No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws them, and I will raise them up at the last day."
   FILES: question-whosoever.html

John 6:44   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "no one can come to me unless the Father draws them"
   NIV : "No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws them, and I will raise them up at the last day."
   FILES: response-andy-stanley.html

Mark 1:15   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "The time has come. The kingdom of God has come near. Repent and believe the good news!"
   NIV : ""The time has come," he said. "The kingdom of God has come near. Repent and believe the good news!""
   FILES: systematic-repentance.html

Matthew 8:21   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "Lord, let me first go and bury my father"
   NIV : "Another disciple said to him, “Lord, first let me go and bury my father.”"
   FILES: question-dead-bury-dead.html

Philippians 1:29   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "granted to you to believe"
   NIV : "For it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him,"
   FILES: anxious-mind-what-if-not-chosen.html

Revelation 13:8   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "the Lamb slain from the creation of the world."
   NIV : "All inhabitants of the earth will worship the beast—all whose names have not been written in the Lamb's book of life, the Lamb who was slain from the creation of the world."
   FILES: open-wound-hospital-room.html

Romans 11:33-36   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "Oh, the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable his judgments, and his paths beyond tracing out! For 'Who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor?' 'Who has ever given to God, that God should repay him?' For from him and through him and for him are all things. To him be the glory forever! Amen."
   NIV : "Oh, the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable his judgments, and his paths beyond tracing out! 'Who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor?' 'Who has ever given to God, that God should repay them?' For from him and through him and for him are all things. To him be the glory forever! Amen."
   FILES: canons-of-dort-plain-english.html

John 16:1-4   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "All this I have told you, so that you will not go astray. They will put you out of the synagogue; in fact, the time is coming when anyone who kills you will think they are offering a service to God. They will do such things because they have not known the Father or me. I have told you this, so that when their time comes you will remember that I warned you about them."
   NIV : "“All this I have told you so that you will not fall away. They will put you out of the synagogue; in fact, the time is coming when anyone who kills you will think they are offering a service to God. They will do such things because they have not known the Father or me. I have told you this, so that when their time comes you will remember that I warned you about them. I did not tell you this from the beginning because I was with you,"
   FILES: invisible-wall-friend-who-left.html

Matthew 20:15   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "Have I no right to do what I want with my own?"
   NIV : "Don't I have the right to do what I want with my own money? Or are you envious because I am generous?"
   FILES: canons-of-dort-plain-english.html

Titus 2:11   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "grace of God has appeared, offering salvation to all people"
   NIV : "For the grace of God has appeared that offers salvation to all people."
   FILES: word-study-every-all.html

Romans 8:15   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "The Spirit you received does not make you a slave, so that you live in fear again"
   NIV : "The Spirit you received does not make you slaves, so that you live in fear again; rather, the Spirit you received brought about your adoption to sonship. And by him we cry, 'Abba, Father.'"
   FILES: psychology-terror-management.html

2 Corinthians 6:1   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "do not receive God's grace in vain"
   NIV : "As God's co-workers we urge you not to receive God's grace in vain."
   FILES: demolition-2cor6-1.html

Acts 2:23   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "according to God's deliberate plan and foreknowledge"
   NIV : "This man was handed over to you by God's deliberate plan and foreknowledge; and you, with the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross."
   FILES: compare-calvinism-open-theism.html

Ezekiel 33:11   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "Do I take any pleasure in the death of the wicked?"
   NIV : "Say to them, 'As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but rather that they turn from their ways and live. Turn! Turn from your evil ways! Why will you die, people of Israel?'"
   FILES: response-dave-hunt.html

Ephesians 1:11   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "all things in conformity with the purpose of his will"
   NIV : "In him we were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will,"
   FILES: analogy-chess-grandmaster.html

John 10:28   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "no one can snatch them out of my Father's hand"
   NIV : "I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish; no one will snatch them out of my hand."
   FILES: apologetic-the-double-grip-of-john-10.html

Romans 9:19   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "who can resist his will?"
   NIV : "One of you will say to me: 'Then why does God still blame us? For who is able to resist his will?'"
   FILES: question-hardening.html

1 John 5:4-5   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "one who is victorious"
   NIV : "For everyone born of God overcomes the world. This is the victory that has overcome the world, even our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world? Only the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God."
   FILES: question-revelation13.html

Colossians 1:24   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "I tolerate my suffering."
   NIV : "Now I rejoice in what I am suffering for you, and I fill up in my flesh what is still lacking in regard to Christ's afflictions, for the sake of his body, which is the church."
   FILES: joy-in-suffering.html

Genesis 3:5   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "Be your own god."
   NIV : "For God knows that when you eat from it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil."
   FILES: resistance-last-idol.html

Matthew 15:19   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "out of the conscious deliberation come evil thoughts."
   NIV : "For out of the heart come evil thoughts—murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false testimony, slander."
   FILES: secular-neuroscience-human-inability.html

Romans 2:4   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "kindness leads to repentance"
   NIV : "Or do you show contempt for the riches of his kindness, forbearance and patience, not realizing that God's kindness is intended to lead you to repentance?"
   FILES: argument-arminianism-secretly-assumes-calvinism.html

1 Kings 18:37   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "that you have turned their hearts back."
   NIV : "Answer me, Lord, answer me, so these people will know that you, Lord, are God, and that you are turning their hearts back again."
   FILES: scripture-tsunami-faith-as-gift.html

1 John 5:1   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "has been born of God"
   NIV : "Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone who loves the father loves his child as well."
   FILES: question-1john5-1.html

John 3:18   (1 page, distance 2)
   PAGE: "because he has not believed"
   NIV : "Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe stands condemned already because they have not believed in the name of God's one and only Son."
   FILES: question-predestined-to-hell.html

John 12:40   (1 page, distance 3, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "He has blinded... He has hardened."
   NIV : ""He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, so they can neither see with their eyes, nor understand with their hearts, nor turn—and I would heal them.""
   FILES: question-parables.html

Malachi 1:2-3   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "Jacob I loved, Esau I hated"
   NIV : "I have loved you, says the Lord. But you ask, 'How have you loved us?' Was not Esau Jacob's brother? declares the Lord. Yet I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated, and I have turned his hill country into a wasteland and left his inheritance to the desert jackals."
   FILES: romans-9-deep-dive.html

Philippians 2:12-13   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "Therefore, my dear friends, continue to work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you to will and to act in order to fulfill his good purpose."
   NIV : "Therefore, my dear friends, as you have always obeyed—not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence—continue to work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God who works in you to will and to act in order to fulfill his good purpose."
   FILES: objection-builder.html

Revelation 7:9   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "a great multitude from every nation"
   NIV : "After this I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that no one could count, from every nation, tribe, people and language, standing before the throne and before the Lamb. They were wearing white robes and were holding palm branches in their hands."
   FILES: word-study-every-all.html

Romans 8:7-8   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "The mind governed by the flesh is hostile to God; it does not submit to God's law, nor can it do so. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God ."
   NIV : "The mind governed by the flesh is hostile to God; it does not submit to God's law, nor can it do so. Those who are in the realm of the flesh cannot please God."
   FILES: question-dead-bury-dead.html

Romans 9:24   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "even us, whom He has called, not from the Jews only but also from the Gentiles."
   NIV : "What then shall we say? Is God unjust? Not at all! For he says to Moses,“I will have mercy on whom I have mercy,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.”[a] It does not, therefore, depend on human desire or effort, but on God’s mercy. For Scripture says to Pharaoh: “I raised you up for this very purpose, that I might display my power in you and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth.”[b] Therefore God has mercy on whom he wants to have mercy, and he hardens whom he wants to harden. One of you will say to me: “Then why does God still blame us? For who is able to resist his will?” But who are you, a human being, to talk back to God? “Shall what is formed say to the one who formed it, ‘Why did you make me like this?’”[c] Does not the potter have the right to make out of the same lump of clay some pottery for special purposes and some for common use? What if God, although choosing to show his wrath and make his power known, bore with great patience the objects of his wrath—prepared for destruction? What if he did this to make the riches of his glory known to the objects of his mercy, whom he prepared in advance for glory— even us, whom he also called, not only from the Jews but also from the Gentiles?"
   FILES: apologetic-ekloge-the-greek-of-election.html

1 Timothy 2:1-4   (1 page, distance 3, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "I urge... that requests, prayers, intercession and thanksgiving be made for all people — for kings and all those in authority."
   NIV : "I urge, then, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercession and thanksgiving be made for all people— for kings and all those in authority, that we may live peaceful and quiet lives in all godliness and holiness. This is good, and pleases God our Savior, who wants all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth."
   FILES: demolition-titus2-11.html

Romans 5:10   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "When we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to him through his Son"
   NIV : "For if, while we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to him through the death of his Son, how much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved through his life!"
   FILES: question-bible-says-sick.html

Hebrews 2:13   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "And again he says, 'Here am I, and the children God has given me.'"
   NIV : "I will put my trust in him. And again, Here am I, and the children God has given me."
   FILES: demolition-hebrews2-9.html

Jude 1:3   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "Contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints."
   NIV : "Dear friends, although I was very eager to write to you about the salvation we share, I felt compelled to write and urge you to contend for the faith that was once for all entrusted to God’s holy people."
   FILES: history-timeline.html

John 6:44   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "no one will choose to come"
   NIV : "No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws them, and I will raise them up at the last day."
   FILES: demolition-cut-off-from-root.html

Ephesians 1:11   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "called according to his purpose"
   NIV : "In him we were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will,"
   FILES: question-2tim1-9.html

Romans 9:20   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "who are you, O man, to talk back to God?"
   NIV : "But who are you, a human being, to talk back to God? 'Shall what is formed say to the one who formed it, Why did you make me like this?'"
   FILES: response-jerry-walls.html

Matthew 4:23-24   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "all sorts of sickness"
   NIV : "Jesus went throughout Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, proclaiming the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and sickness among the people. News about him spread all over Syria, and people brought to him all who were ill with various diseases, those suffering severe pain, the demon-possessed, those having seizures, and the paralyzed; and he healed them."
   FILES: word-study-every-all.html

Romans 6:17-20   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "I will be free."
   NIV : "But thanks be to God that, though you used to be slaves to sin, you have come to obey from your heart the pattern of teaching that has now claimed your allegiance. You have been set free from sin and have become slaves to righteousness. I am using an example from everyday life because of your human limitations. Just as you used to offer yourselves as slaves to impurity and to ever-increasing wickedness, so now offer yourselves as slaves to righteousness leading to holiness. When you were slaves to sin, you were free from the control of righteousness."
   FILES: story-the-person-who-chose-god.html

Psalm 51:5   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "sinful at birth, sinful from the time their mothers conceived them"
   NIV : "Surely I was sinful at birth, sinful from the time my mother conceived me."
   FILES: apologetic-unreached.html

Matthew 5:6   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "Blessed are those who are already satisfied."
   NIV : "Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they will be filled."
   FILES: anxious-mind-what-if-not-chosen.html

Romans 8:28   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "All things work together for good"
   NIV : "And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose."
   FILES: compare-calvinism-open-theism.html

Acts 13:48   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "all who disposed themselves to eternal life believed."
   NIV : "When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and honored the word of the Lord; and all who were appointed for eternal life believed."
   FILES: response-jerry-walls.html

John 3:19-20   (1 page, distance 3)
   PAGE: "God so loved the world,"
   NIV : "This is the verdict: Light has come into the world, but people loved darkness instead of light because their deeds were evil. Everyone who does evil hates the light, and will not come into the light for fear that their deeds will be exposed."
   FILES: apologetic-loved-darkness-rather-than-light.html


### C. SHORT REWRITE
========================================================================

Deuteronomy 30:6   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "love the Lord your God with all your heart"
   NIV : "The Lord your God will circumcise your hearts and the hearts of your descendants, so that you may love him with all your heart and with all your soul, and live."
   FILES: demolition-james4-7-8.html

Hebrews 11:8   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called."
   NIV : "By faith Abraham, when called to go to a place he would later receive as his inheritance, obeyed and went, even though he did not know where he was going."
   FILES: ot-abraham.html

Isaiah 64:8   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "You, LORD, are our Father. We are the clay."
   NIV : "Yet you, Lord, are our Father.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We are the clay, you are the potter;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;we are all the work of your hand."
   FILES: ot-isaiah-servant.html

Proverbs 18:13   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "To answer before listening — that is folly and shame"
   NIV : "To answer before listening—&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;that is folly and shame."
   FILES: question-arminian-steelman.html

Romans 8:38-39   (1 page, distance 4, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "Neither death nor life... nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord"
   NIV : "For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord."
   FILES: compare-every-decision-point.html

Philippians 1:29   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "To them it has been granted on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him."
   NIV : "For it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him,"
   FILES: printable-faith-is-a-gift.html

Romans 9:20   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "But who are you, O man, to answer back to God?"
   NIV : "But who are you, a human being, to talk back to God? 'Shall what is formed say to the one who formed it, Why did you make me like this?'"
   FILES: canons-of-dort-plain-english.html

Ephesians 1:4   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "to the praise of his glory."
   NIV : "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight."
   FILES: apologetic-the-eulogy-greek-of-ephesians-1.html

James 4:2   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "You do not have because God hasn't decreed it."
   NIV : "You desire but do not have, so you kill. You covet but you cannot get what you want, so you quarrel and fight. You do not have because you do not ask God."
   FILES: pastoral-prayer.html

Psalm 14:1-3   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "There is no one righteous, not even one"
   NIV : "For the director of music. Of David. The fool says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, their deeds are vile; there is no one who does good."
   FILES: romans-3-10-18.html

Romans 8:29   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "Those whose faith God foresaw, He also predestined."
   NIV : "For those God foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers and sisters."
   FILES: question-foreknowledge.html

2 Corinthians 12:7-10   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "is more gracious than the"
   NIV : "But he said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness." Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me."
   FILES: devotionals.html

John 6:37   (1 page, distance 4)
   PAGE: "have the opportunity to come."
   NIV : "All those the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away."
   FILES: demolition-steel-man-arminianism.html

Ephesians 2:3   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "We were by nature deserving of wrath, like the rest"
   NIV : "All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our flesh and following its desires and thoughts. Like the rest, we were by nature deserving of wrath."
   FILES: systematic-adoption.html

Ephesians 2:5   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "Even when we were dead in transgressions, [God] made us alive with Christ"
   NIV : "made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in transgressions—it is by grace you have been saved."
   FILES: devotional-rescued-without-a-say.html

Isaiah 14:24   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "The Lord Almighty has sworn, 'Surely, as I have planned, so it will be, and as I have purposed, so it will happen.'"
   NIV : "The Lord Almighty has sworn,“Surely, as I have planned, so it will be,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and as I have purposed, so it will happen."
   FILES: ot-isaiah-servant.html

Matthew 15:9   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "They worship me in vain; their teachings are merely human rules."
   NIV : "They worship me in vain;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;their teachings are merely human rules.’[a]”"
   FILES: psychology-sunk-cost-faith.html

Proverbs 22:6   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "Start children off on the way they should go, and even when they are old they will not turn from it."
   NIV : "Start children off on the way they should go,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and even when they are old they will not turn from it."
   FILES: psychology-cognitive-biases.html

Proverbs 28:1   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "The wicked flee though no one pursues, but the righteous are as bold as a lion."
   NIV : "The wicked flee though no one pursues,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;but the righteous are as bold as a lion."
   FILES: psychology-why-this-objection-proves-our-point.html

Psalm 147:4   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "determines the number of the stars and calls them each by name"
   NIV : "He determines the number of the stars&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and calls them each by name."
   FILES: ot-jonah.html

Psalm 30:5   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "Weeping may stay for the night, but rejoicing comes in the morning"
   NIV : "For his anger lasts only a moment,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;but his favor lasts a lifetime;weeping may stay for the night,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;but rejoicing comes in the morning."
   FILES: open-wound-sovereignty-in-grief.html

Psalm 51:10   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "Create in me a pure heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me"
   NIV : "Create in me a pure heart, O God,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and renew a steadfast spirit within me."
   FILES: psychology-emotional-vs-rational.html

Romans 3:10-18   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "no one righteous, no one who understands, no one who seeks God"
   NIV : "There is no one righteous, not even one; there is no one who understands; there is no one who seeks God. All have turned away, they have together become worthless; there is no one who does good, not even one. Their throats are open graves; their tongues practice deceit. The poison of vipers is on their lips. Their mouths are full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood; ruin and misery mark their ways, and the way of peace they do not know. There is no fear of God before their eyes."
   FILES: response-andy-stanley.html

Deuteronomy 29:4   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "But to this day the LORD has not given you a heart to understand or eyes to see or ears to hear."
   NIV : "But to this day the Lord has not given you a mind that understands or eyes that see or ears that hear."
   FILES: scripture-tsunami-faith-as-gift.html

John 12:32   (1 page, distance 5, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "I, when I am lifted up… will draw all kinds of people to myself"
   NIV : "And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself."
   FILES: demolition-john12-32.html

Matthew 21:43   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "a people who will produce its fruit."
   NIV : "A landowner planted a vineyard with walls, a winepress, and watchtower, then leased it to farmers. At harvest time, he sent servants to collect his share. The tenants beat one servant, killed another, and stoned a third. When the owner sent additional servants, they received the same treatment. Finally, the owner sent his son, thinking they would respect him. Instead, the tenants said, "This is the heir. Let's kill him and take his inheritance." They threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. Jesus asked his listeners what the owner would do to these tenants. They replied he would destroy them and lease the vineyard to others who would give him his rightful share. Jesus then referenced Scripture: "The stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone; the Lord has done this, and it is marvelous in our eyes." He declared that the kingdom of God would be taken from them and given to people producing its fruit. Whoever falls on this stone will be broken; whoever it falls upon will be crushed. When the chief priests and Pharisees heard these parables, they recognized Jesus was speaking about them. They sought to arrest him but feared the crowd, who believed him to be a prophet."
   FILES: demolition-isaiah5-1-7.html

1 John 5:1   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "Everyone who believes has been born of God."
   NIV : "Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone who loves the father loves his child as well."
   FILES: questions.html

Romans 9:22-23   (1 page, distance 5)
   PAGE: "vessels of mercy, which He prepared beforehand for glory"
   NIV : "What if God, although choosing to show his wrath and make his power known, bore with great patience the objects of his wrath—prepared for destruction? What if he did this to make the riches of his glory known to the objects of his mercy, whom he prepared in advance for glory—"
   FILES: objection-responsibility.html

Isaiah 10:22   (1 page, distance 6)
   PAGE: "Though your people Israel be like the sand by the sea, only a remnant will return"
   NIV : "Though your people be like the sand by the sea, Israel,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;only a remnant will return.Destruction has been decreed,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;overwhelming and righteous."
   FILES: ot-israel-chosen.html

Proverbs 15:1   (1 page, distance 6)
   PAGE: "A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger."
   NIV : "A gentle answer turns away wrath,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;but a harsh word stirs up anger."
   FILES: psychology-backfire-effect.html

Romans 9:19   (1 page, distance 6)
   PAGE: "You will say to me then, 'Why does He still find fault? For who can resist His will?'"
   NIV : "One of you will say to me: 'Then why does God still blame us? For who is able to resist his will?'"
   FILES: psychology-offense-of-grace.html

Genesis 15:6   (1 page, distance 6)
   PAGE: "Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness."
   NIV : "Abram believed the Lord, and he credited it to him as righteousness."
   FILES: systematic-imputation.html

Ezekiel 33:11   (1 page, distance 6)
   PAGE: "Rather, am I not pleased when they turn from their ways and live?"
   NIV : "Say to them, 'As surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but rather that they turn from their ways and live. Turn! Turn from your evil ways! Why will you die, people of Israel?'"
   FILES: response-dave-hunt.html

1 Peter 2:9   (1 page, distance 6)
   PAGE: "until the redemption of those who are God's possession,"
   NIV : "But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God’s special possession, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light."
   FILES: apologetic-bought-with-his-own-blood.html

Romans 9:19   (1 page, distance 6)
   PAGE: "Why does He still find fault? For who resists His will?"
   NIV : "One of you will say to me: 'Then why does God still blame us? For who is able to resist his will?'"
   FILES: response-jerry-walls.html

Romans 2:4   (1 page, distance 6)
   PAGE: "the kindness of God leads you toward repentance"
   NIV : "Or do you show contempt for the riches of his kindness, forbearance and patience, not realizing that God's kindness is intended to lead you to repentance?"
   FILES: demolition-romans2-4.html

2 Timothy 4:3   (1 page, distance 7, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "They will not put up with sound doctrine… their itching ears want to hear."
   NIV : "For the time will come when people will not put up with sound doctrine. Instead, to suit their own desires, they will gather around them a great number of teachers to say what their itching ears want to hear."
   FILES: printable-the-mirror.html

Psalm 56:8   (1 page, distance 7)
   PAGE: "Record my misery; list my tears on your scroll— are they not in your record?"
   NIV : "Record my misery;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;list my tears on your scroll[a]—&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;are they not in your record?"
   FILES: open-wound-sovereignty-in-grief.html

Mark 4:12   (1 page, distance 7, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "so that, 'they may be ever seeing but never perceiving... otherwise they might turn and be forgiven!'"
   NIV : ""They may be ever seeing but never perceiving, and ever hearing but never understanding; otherwise they might turn and be forgiven!""
   FILES: question-parables.html

Ephesians 2:4-5   (1 page, distance 7)
   PAGE: "As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins."
   NIV : "But because of his great love for us, God, who is rich in mercy, made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in transgressions—it is by grace you have been saved."
   FILES: argument-logical-collapse-arminianism.html

Psalm 51:1   (1 page, distance 8)
   PAGE: "Have mercy on me, O God, according to your unfailing love; according to your great compassion blot out my transgressions"
   NIV : "Psalm 51[a]For the director of music. A psalm of David. When the prophet Nathan came to him after David had committed adultery with Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, O God,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;according to your unfailing love;according to your great compassion&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;blot out my transgressions."
   FILES: ot-david.html

Romans 10:14-15   (1 page, distance 8)
   PAGE: "How can they believe unless they have heard? And how can they hear without someone preaching? And how can anyone preach unless they are sent?"
   NIV : "How, then, can they call on the one they have not believed in? And how can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard? And how can they hear without someone preaching to them? And how can anyone preach unless they are sent? As it is written: "How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news!""
   FILES: canons-of-dort-plain-english.html

Deuteronomy 7:6   (1 page, distance 8, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "You are a people (laos) holy to the LORD your God. The LORD your God has chosen you… to be his people, his treasured possession"
   NIV : "For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you out of all the peoples on the face of the earth to be his people, his treasured possession. The Lord did not set his affection on you and choose you because you were more numerous than other peoples, for you were the fewest of all peoples. But it was because the Lord loved you and kept the oath he swore to your ancestors that he brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the land of slavery, from the power of Pharaoh king of Egypt."
   FILES: apologetic-many-people-in-this-city.html

Ephesians 5:26-27   (1 page, distance 8, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "to make her holy... and to present her to himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle... but holy and blameless"
   NIV : "and to present her to himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless."
   FILES: apologetic-gave-himself-for-the-bride.html

Luke 22:22   (1 page, distance 8)
   PAGE: "the Son of Man goes as it has been determined, but woe to that man by whom he is betrayed"
   NIV : "The Son of Man will go as it has been decreed. But woe to that man who betrays him!"
   FILES: systematic-compatibilism.html


### D. COMPRESSION OR TRUNCATION
========================================================================

Job 42:5-6   (1 page, distance 9)
   PAGE: "My ears had heard of you but now my eyes have seen you. Therefore I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes"
   NIV : "My ears had heard of you&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;but now my eyes have seen you. Therefore I despise myself&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and repent in dust and ashes.”"
   FILES: pastoral-suffering.html

Romans 5:8-10   (1 page, distance 9, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "While we were still sinners, Christ died for us... When we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to him through the death of his Son."
   NIV : "But God demonstrates his own love for us in this: While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since we have now been justified by his blood, how much more shall we be saved from God's wrath through him! For if, while we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to him through the death of his Son, how much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved through his life!"
   FILES: story-the-person-who-chose-god.html

John 12:40   (1 page, distance 10, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "He has blinded their eyes and hardened their heart, lest they see... and understand... and I would heal them"
   NIV : ""He has blinded their eyes and hardened their hearts, so they can neither see with their eyes, nor understand with their hearts, nor turn—and I would heal them.""
   FILES: question-parables.html

Isaiah 35:5-6   (1 page, distance 11)
   PAGE: "Then will the eyes of the blind be opened and the ears of the deaf unstopped. Then will the lame leap like a deer, and the mute tongue shout for joy"
   NIV : "Then will the eyes of the blind be opened&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and the ears of the deaf unstopped. Then will the lame leap like a deer,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and the mute tongue shout for joy.Water will gush forth in the wilderness&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and streams in the desert."
   FILES: ot-isaiah-servant.html

2 Peter 2:20   (1 page, distance 12, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "If they have escaped the corruption of the world... and are again entangled in it, they are worse off at the end than they were at the beginning"
   NIV : "If they have escaped the corruption of the world by knowing our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and are again entangled in it and are overcome, they are worse off at the end than they were at the beginning. It would have been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than to have known it and then to turn their backs on the sacred command that was passed on to them. Of them the proverbs are true: A dog returns to its vomit, and, A sow that is washed returns to her wallowing in the mud."
   FILES: printable-perseverance.html

Matthew 12:31-32   (1 page, distance 12)
   PAGE: "Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven people, but the blasphemy against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come."
   NIV : "And so I tell you, every kind of sin and slander can be forgiven, but blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven. Anyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but anyone who speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come."
   FILES: anxious-mind-scrupulosity.html

Romans 10:14   (2 pages, distance 13)
   PAGE: "How can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard? And how can they hear without someone preaching to them?"
   NIV : "How, then, can they call on the one they have not believed in? And how can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard?"
   FILES: question-arminian-steelman.html, systematic-ecclesiology.html

Jeremiah 20:9   (1 page, distance 13)
   PAGE: "If I say, 'I will not mention his word or speak anymore in his name,' his word is in my heart like a fire, a fire shut up in my bones. I am weary of holding it in; indeed, I cannot"
   NIV : "But if I say, “I will not mention his word&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;or speak anymore in his name,”his word is in my heart like a fire,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a fire shut up in my bones.I am weary of holding it in;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;indeed, I cannot."
   FILES: ot-jeremiah.html

Romans 9:11-13   (1 page, distance 13)
   PAGE: "Before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad — in order that God's purpose in election might stand — she was told, 'The older will serve the younger.' Just as it is written: 'Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated'"
   NIV : "Yet, before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad—in order that God's purpose in election might stand: not by works but by him who calls—she was told, 'The older will serve the younger.' Just as it is written: 'Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.'"
   FILES: compare-every-decision-point.html

Romans 9:11-13   (1 page, distance 13)
   PAGE: "Before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad — in order that God's purpose in election might stand — she was told, 'The older will serve the younger.' Just as it is written: ' Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. '"
   NIV : "Yet, before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad—in order that God's purpose in election might stand: not by works but by him who calls—she was told, 'The older will serve the younger.' Just as it is written: 'Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.'"
   FILES: demolition-orthodox-predestination.html

Ephesians 1:13   (1 page, distance 13)
   PAGE: "marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance"
   NIV : "And you also were included in Christ when you heard the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation. When you believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit."
   FILES: devotional-love-letter-before-time.html

Ephesians 1:4-5   (1 page, distance 14, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "He chose us in him before the creation of the world... In love he predestined us for adoption to sonship, in accordance with his pleasure and will."
   NIV : "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love he predestined us for adoption to sonship through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will."
   FILES: demolition-orthodox-predestination.html

Psalm 22:1-2   (1 page, distance 17)
   PAGE: "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, so far from my cries of anguish? My God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer; and by night, but I find no rest."
   NIV : "Psalm 22[a]For the director of music. To the tune of “The Doe of the Morning.” A psalm of David. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Why are you so far from saving me,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;so far from my cries of anguish?2 My God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer,&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;by night, but I find no rest.[b]"
   FILES: open-wound-sovereignty-in-grief.html

Romans 1:21-22   (1 page, distance 17)
   PAGE: "their thinking became futile and their foolish hearts were darkened. Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools"
   NIV : "For although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him, but their thinking became futile and their foolish hearts were darkened."
   FILES: presuppositional-no-neutral-ground.html

John 6:44   (1 page, distance 17)
   PAGE: "All those the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away."
   NIV : "No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws them, and I will raise them up at the last day."
   FILES: response-leighton-flowers.html

James 1:14-15   (1 page, distance 19)
   PAGE: "each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their own evil desire and enticed. Then, after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin"
   NIV : "When tempted, no one should say, “God is tempting me.” For God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone; but each person is tempted when they are dragged away by their own evil desire and enticed."
   FILES: anxious-mind-intrusive-thoughts.html

Romans 7:15   (1 page, distance 28, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "I do not understand what I do. For what I want ( ho thelō ) to do I do not do, but what I hate I do… For I have the desire ( to thelein ) to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out. For I do not do the good I want ( thelō ) to do, but the evil I do not want to do — this I keep on doing."
   NIV : "I do not understand what I do. For what I want to do I do not do, but what I hate I do. And if I do what I do not want to do, I agree that the law is good. As it is, it is no longer I myself who do it, but it is sin living in me. For I know that good itself does not dwell in me, that is, in my sinful nature. For I have the desire to do what is good, but I cannot carry it out. For I do not do the good I want to do, but the evil I do not want to do—this I keep on doing. Now if I do what I do not want to do, it is no longer I who do it, but it is sin living in me that does it."
   FILES: psychology-autonomy-illusion.html

1 Timothy 2:4   (2 pages, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "God our Savior, who wants all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth"
   NIV : "who wants all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth."
   FILES: objection-why-not-save-everyone.html, systematic-covenant-redemption.html

Romans 10:14   (2 pages, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "How, then, can they call on the one they have not believed in? And how can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard? And how can they hear without someone preaching to them?"
   NIV : "How, then, can they call on the one they have not believed in? And how can they believe in the one of whom they have not heard?"
   FILES: apologetic-unreached.html, objection-builder.html

Ephesians 1:4   (2 pages, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love he predestined us for adoption to sonship through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will—"
   NIV : "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight."
   FILES: psychology-cognitive-biases.html, psychology-identity-threat.html

Romans 8:30   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "And those he predestined he also called; and those he called he also justified; and those he justified he also glorified."
   NIV : "And those he predestined, he also called; those he called, he also justified; those he justified, he also glorified."
   FILES: question-external-call.html

Numbers 23:19   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "God is not human, that he should lie, not a human being, that he should change his mind ( nāḥam ). Does he speak and then not act? Does he promise and not fulfill?"
   NIV : "God is not human, that he should lie, not a human being, that he should change his mind. Does he speak and then not act? Does he promise and not fulfill?"
   FILES: demolition-jer18.html

Luke 16:31   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "He said to him, 'If they do not listen to Moses and the Prophets, they will not be convinced even if someone rises from the dead.'"
   NIV : "If they do not listen to Moses and the Prophets, they will not be convinced even if someone rises from the dead."
   FILES: systematic-bibliology.html

John 6:37-39   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "All those the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away. For I have come down from heaven not to do my will but to do the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I shall lose none of all those he has given me, but raise them up at the last day."
   NIV : "All those the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I shall lose none of all those he has given me, but raise them up at the last day."
   FILES: apologetic-i-shall-lose-none.html

Romans 1:21-22   (1 page, distance 1000000000, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "knew God... neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him, but their thinking became futile and their foolish hearts were darkened. Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools"
   NIV : "For although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him, but their thinking became futile and their foolish hearts were darkened."
   FILES: presuppositional-no-neutral-ground.html

Acts 18:9-10   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "One night the Lord spoke to Paul in a vision: 'Do not be afraid; keep on speaking, do not be silent. For I am with you, and no one is going to attack and harm you, because I have many people in this city.'"
   NIV : "Do not be afraid; keep on speaking, do not be silent. For I am with you, and no one is going to attack and harm you, because I have many people in this city."
   FILES: start-here-phase4.html

Psalm 139:13-16   (1 page, distance 1000000000, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "For you created my inmost being; you knit me together in my mother's womb... My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in the secret place... your eyes saw my unformed body; all the days ordained for me were written in your book before one of them came to be"
   NIV : "For you created my inmost being; you knit me together in my mother's womb. Your eyes saw my unformed body; all the days ordained for me were written in your book before one of them came to be."
   FILES: ethics-abortion.html

Titus 3:5-6   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "He saved us, not because of righteous things we had done, but because of his mercy. He saved us through the washing of rebirth and renewal by the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us generously through Jesus Christ our Savior."
   NIV : "he saved us, not because of righteous things we had done, but because of his mercy. He saved us through the washing of rebirth and renewal by the Holy Spirit,"
   FILES: apologetic-the-washing-of-rebirth.html

Ephesians 2:8   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith — and this is not from yourselves , it is the gift of God — not by works, so that no one can boast."
   NIV : "For it is by grace you have been saved, through faith—and this is not from yourselves, it is the gift of God—"
   FILES: the-60-second-case.html

1 Corinthians 15:14   (1 page, distance 1000000000, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless and so is your faith... you are still in your sins"
   NIV : "And if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless and so is your faith."
   FILES: reformed-apologetics-resurrection.html

Mark 10:43-45   (1 page, distance 1000000000, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant... For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many"
   NIV : "For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many."
   FILES: ethics-power-authority.html

John 10:27   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "My sheep listen to my voice; I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish"
   NIV : "My sheep listen to my voice; I know them, and they follow me."
   FILES: pastoral-when-truth-lands.html

Romans 8:14-15   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "For those who are led by the Spirit of God are the children of God. The Spirit you received does not make you slaves, so that you live in fear again; rather, the Spirit you received brought about your adoption to sonship."
   NIV : "The Spirit you received does not make you slaves, so that you live in fear again; rather, the Spirit you received brought about your adoption to sonship. And by him we cry, 'Abba, Father.'"
   FILES: printable-adoption.html

Romans 11:33-34   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "Oh, the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable his judgments, and his paths beyond tracing out! Who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor?"
   NIV : "Oh, the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable his judgments, and his paths beyond tracing out!"
   FILES: analytical-archetypal-ectypal.html

Romans 9:11   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "Before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad — in order that God's purpose in election might stand: not by works but by him who calls"
   NIV : "Yet, before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad—in order that God's purpose in election might stand:"
   FILES: apologetic-babies.html

Romans 9:11   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad — in order that God's purpose in election might stand: not by works but by him who calls."
   NIV : "Yet, before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad—in order that God's purpose in election might stand:"
   FILES: compare-predestination-foreknowledge.html

Ephesians 5:26-27   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word, and to present her to himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless"
   NIV : "and to present her to himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless."
   FILES: apologetic-gave-himself-for-the-bride.html

2 Corinthians 12:9-10   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me. That is why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, in difficulties. For when I am weak, then I am strong"
   NIV : "But he said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness." Therefore I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me."
   FILES: devotional-weakness-of-gods-strength.html

John 10:27   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "listen to my voice; I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish"
   NIV : "My sheep listen to my voice; I know them, and they follow me."
   FILES: demolition-2peter1-10.html

2 Timothy 2:24-25   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but must be kind to everyone, able to teach, not resentful. Opponents must be gently instructed, in the hope that God will grant them repentance leading them to a knowledge of the truth."
   NIV : "Opponents must be gently instructed, in the hope that God will grant them repentance leading them to a knowledge of the truth,"
   FILES: psychology-cognitive-biases.html

John 10:28   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish; no one will snatch them out of my hand . My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all; no one can snatch them out of my Father's hand ."
   NIV : "I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish; no one will snatch them out of my hand."
   FILES: demolition-1peter1-5.html

Hebrews 6:17-18   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "Because God wanted to make the unchanging nature of his purpose very clear to the heirs of what was promised, he confirmed it with an oath. God did this so that, by two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled to take hold of the hope set before us may be greatly encouraged"
   NIV : "God did this so that, by two unchangeable things in which it is impossible for God to lie, we who have fled to take hold of the hope set before us may be greatly encouraged."
   FILES: analytical-immutability.html

Ezekiel 36:25-27   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean; I will cleanse you from all your impurities and from all your idols. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you; I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws"
   NIV : "I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you; I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh."
   FILES: apologetic-i-will-move-you.html

Ezekiel 36:25-27   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean; I will cleanse you from all your impurities and from all your idols. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you; I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my Spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws."
   NIV : "I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you; I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh."
   FILES: apologetic-the-cardiac-transplant.html

Ephesians 1:4   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love he predestined us for adoption to sonship through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will, to the praise of his glorious grace."
   NIV : "For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight."
   FILES: story-children-the-king-who-chose.html

Romans 9:11   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "before the twins had done anything good or bad — in order that God's purpose in election might stand: not by works but by Him who calls"
   NIV : "Yet, before the twins were born or had done anything good or bad—in order that God's purpose in election might stand:"
   FILES: question-arminian-steelman.html

Ephesians 5:25-26   (1 page, distance 1000000000)
   PAGE: "Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word."
   NIV : "Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her"
   FILES: apologetic-definite-atonement.html

John 6:37   (1 page, distance 1000000000, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "All those the Father gives me will come to me... No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws them."
   NIV : "All those the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never drive away."
   FILES: demolition-orthodox-predestination.html

Matthew 11:28   (1 page, distance 1000000000, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest... For my yoke is easy and my burden is light"
   NIV : "Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest."
   FILES: question-hardening.html

Romans 8:28   (1 page, distance 1000000000, has ellipsis)
   PAGE: "And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose. For those God foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son... And those he predestined, he also called; those he called, he also justified; those he justified, he also glorified."
   NIV : "And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose."
   FILES: romans-8-28-39.html
